README.md, before:

# Talos Submodule - Django Continuous Delivery

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/python/black)

> A [Django](https://docs.djangoproject.com) project template ready for continuous delivery.

## 🧩 Requirements

The Talos script can be run either using Docker or a Python virtual environment.

### 🐋 Docker

In order to run Talos via Docker, a working [Docker installation](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) is the only requirement.

### 🐍 Virtual environment

In order to run Talos in a virtual environment, first clone the repository in a local projects directory and ensure it is your current directory:

```console
cd ~/projects
git clone git@github.com:20tab/django-continuous-delivery.git talos-django
cd talos-django
```

Then, create and activate a virtual environment and install the requirements:

```console
python3.12 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip setuptools
python3 -m pip install -r requirements/common.txt
```

The `terraform` cli package is required, unless you want to generate a project only locally. To install it we suggest to use the official [install guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli).

## 🔑 Credentials (optional)

### 🦊 GitLab

If the GitLab integration is enabled, a Personal Access Token with _api_ permission is required.<br/>
It can be generated in the GitLab User Settings panel.

**Note:** the token can be generated in the Access Tokens section of the GitLab User Settings panel.<br/>
⚠️ Beware that the token is shown only once after creation.

## 🚀️ Quickstart

Change to the projects directory, for example:

```console
cd ~/projects
```

### 🐋 Docker

```console
docker run --interactive --tty --rm --volume $PWD/.dumps:/app/.dumps --volume $PWD/.logs:/app/.logs --volume $PWD:/data 20tab/talos-django:latest
```

### 🐍 Virtual environment

```console
source talos-django/.venv/bin/activate
./talos-django/start.py
```

### Example

```console
Project name: My Project Name
Project slug [my-project-name]:
Service slug [backend]:
Project dirname (backend, myprojectname) [backend]: myprojectname
Deploy type (digitalocean-k8s, other-k8s) [digitalocean-k8s]:
Terraform backend (gitlab, terraform-cloud) [terraform-cloud]:
Terraform host name [app.terraform.io]:
Terraform Cloud User token:
Terraform Organization: my-organization-name
Do you want to create Terraform Cloud Organization 'my-organization-name'? [y/N]:
Choose the environments distribution:
  1 - All environments share the same stack (Default)
  2 - Dev and Stage environments share the same stack, Prod has its own
  3 - Each environment has its own stack
 (1, 2, 3) [1]:
Development environment complete URL [https://dev.my-project-name.com]:
Staging environment complete URL [https://stage.my-project-name.com]:
Production environment complete URL [https://www.my-project-name.com]:
Media storage (digitalocean-s3, aws-s3, local, none) [digitalocean-s3]:
Do you want to configure Redis? [y/N]:
Do you want to use GitLab? [Y/n]:
GitLab group slug [my-project-name]:
Make sure the GitLab "my-project-name" group exists before proceeding. Continue? [y/N]: y
GitLab private token (with API scope enabled):
Sentry DSN (leave blank if unused) []:
Initializing the backend service:
...cookiecutting the service
...generating the .env file
...formatting the cookiecut python code
...compiling the requirements files
	- common.txt
	- test.txt
	- local.txt
	- remote.txt
	- base.txt
...creating the '/static' directory
...creating the GitLab repository and associated resources
...creating the Terraform Cloud resources
```

## 🗒️ Arguments

The following arguments can be appended to the Docker and shell commands

#### User id

`--uid=$UID`

#### Group id

`--gid=1000`

#### Output directory

`--output-dir="~/projects"`

#### Project name

`--project-name="My project name"`

#### Project slug

`--project-slug="my-project-name"`

#### Project dirname

`--project-dirname="myprojectname"`

### 🎖️ Service

#### Service slug

`--service-slug=backend`

#### Service port

`--internal-service-port=8000`

### 📐 Architecture

#### Deploy type

| Description             | Argument                             |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| DigitalOcean Kubernetes | `--deployment-type=digitalocean-k8s` |
| Other Kubernetes        | `--deployment-type=other-k8s`        |

#### Terraform backend

| Name            | Argument                              |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| Terraform Cloud | `--terraform-backend=terraform-cloud` |
| GitLab          | `--terraform-backend=gitlab`          |

##### Terraform Cloud required argument

`--terraform-cloud-hostname=app.terraform.io`<br/>
`--terraform-cloud-token={{terraform-cloud-token}}`<br/>
`--terraform-cloud-organization`

##### Terraform Cloud create organization

`--terraform-cloud-organization-create`<br/>
`--terraform-cloud-admin-email={{terraform-cloud-admin-email}}`

Disabled args
`--terraform-cloud-organization-create-skip`

#### Environment distribution

Choose the environments distribution:

| Value | Description                                                       | Argument                       |
| ----- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 1     | All environments share the same stack (Default)                   | `--environment-distribution=1` |
| 2     | Dev and Stage environments share the same stack, Prod has its own | `--environment-distribution=2` |
| 3     | Each environment has its own stack                                | `--environment-distribution=3` |

#### Project Domain

If you don't want DigitalOcean DNS configuration the following args are required

`--project-url-dev=https://dev.project-domain.com`<br/>
`--project-url-stage=https://stage.project-domain.com`<br/>
`--project-url-prod=https://www.project-domain.com`

#### Media storage

| Value           | Description                                 | Argument                          |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| digitalocean-s3 | DigitalOcean Spaces are used to store media | `--media-storage=digitalocean-s3` |
| aws-s3          | AWS S3 are used to store media              | `--media-storage=aws-s3`          |
| local           | Docker Volume are used to store media       | `--media-storage=local`           |
| none            | Project have no media                       | `--media-storage=none`            |

#### Redis

For enabling redis integration the following arguments are needed:

`--use-redis`

Disabled args
`--no-redis`

### 🦊 GitLab

> **⚠️ Important: Make sure the GitLab group exists before creating.** > https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/244345

For enabling gitlab integration the following arguments are needed:

`--gitlab-private-token={{gitlab-private-token}}`<br/>
`--gitlab-group-path={{gitlab-group-path}}`

#### 🪖 Sentry

For enabling sentry integration the following arguments are needed:

`--sentry-dsn={{frontend-sentry-dsn}}`

#### 🔇 Quiet

No confirmations shown.

`--quiet`

Commit message:

TG-940 Add local MinIO service

README.md, after:

# Talos Submodule - Django Continuous Delivery

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/python/black)

> A [Django](https://docs.djangoproject.com) project template ready for continuous delivery.

## 🧩 Requirements

The Talos script can be run either using Docker or a Python virtual environment.

### 🐋 Docker

In order to run Talos via Docker, a working [Docker installation](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) is the only requirement.

### 🐍 Virtual environment

In order to run Talos in a virtual environment, first clone the repository in a local projects directory and ensure it is your current directory:

```console
cd ~/projects
git clone git@github.com:20tab/django-continuous-delivery.git talos-django
cd talos-django
```

Then, create and activate a virtual environment and install the requirements:

```console
python3.12 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip setuptools
python3 -m pip install -r requirements/common.txt
```

The `terraform` cli package is required, unless you want to generate a project only locally. To install it we suggest to use the official [install guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli).

Should you opt for an S3-like object storage, you must install and launch MinIO Server's `mc` package as outlined in this [install guide](https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/index.html).

## 🔑 Credentials (optional)

### 🦊 GitLab

If the GitLab integration is enabled, a Personal Access Token with _api_ permission is required.<br/>
It can be generated in the GitLab User Settings panel.

**Note:** the token can be generated in the Access Tokens section of the GitLab User Settings panel.<br/>
⚠️ Beware that the token is shown only once after creation.

## 🚀️ Quickstart

Change to the projects directory, for example:

```console
cd ~/projects
```

### 🐋 Docker

```console
docker run --interactive --tty --rm --volume $PWD/.dumps:/app/.dumps --volume $PWD/.logs:/app/.logs --volume $PWD:/data 20tab/talos-django:latest
```

### 🐍 Virtual environment

```console
source talos-django/.venv/bin/activate
./talos-django/start.py
```

### Example

```console
Project name: My Project Name
Project slug [my-project-name]:
Service slug [backend]:
Project dirname (backend, myprojectname) [backend]: myprojectname
Deploy type (digitalocean-k8s, other-k8s) [digitalocean-k8s]:
Terraform backend (gitlab, terraform-cloud) [terraform-cloud]:
Terraform host name [app.terraform.io]:
Terraform Cloud User token:
Terraform Organization: my-organization-name
Do you want to create Terraform Cloud Organization 'my-organization-name'? [y/N]:
Choose the environments distribution:
  1 - All environments share the same stack (Default)
  2 - Dev and Stage environments share the same stack, Prod has its own
  3 - Each environment has its own stack
 (1, 2, 3) [1]:
Development environment complete URL [https://dev.my-project-name.com]:
Staging environment complete URL [https://stage.my-project-name.com]:
Production environment complete URL [https://www.my-project-name.com]:
Media storage (digitalocean-s3, aws-s3, local, none) [digitalocean-s3]:
Do you want to configure Redis? [y/N]:
Do you want to use GitLab? [Y/n]:
GitLab group slug [my-project-name]:
Make sure the GitLab "my-project-name" group exists before proceeding. Continue? [y/N]: y
GitLab private token (with API scope enabled):
Sentry DSN (leave blank if unused) []:
Initializing the backend service:
...cookiecutting the service
...generating the .env file
...formatting the cookiecut python code
...compiling the requirements files
	- common.txt
	- test.txt
	- local.txt
	- remote.txt
	- base.txt
...creating the '/static' directory
...creating the GitLab repository and associated resources
...creating the Terraform Cloud resources
```

## 🗒️ Arguments

The following arguments can be appended to the Docker and shell commands

#### User id

`--uid=$UID`

#### Group id

`--gid=1000`

#### Output directory

`--output-dir="~/projects"`

#### Project name

`--project-name="My project name"`

#### Project slug

`--project-slug="my-project-name"`

#### Project dirname

`--project-dirname="myprojectname"`

### 🎖️ Service

#### Service slug

`--service-slug=backend`

#### Service port

`--internal-service-port=8000`

### 📐 Architecture

#### Deploy type

| Description             | Argument                             |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| DigitalOcean Kubernetes | `--deployment-type=digitalocean-k8s` |
| Other Kubernetes        | `--deployment-type=other-k8s`        |

#### Terraform backend

| Name            | Argument                              |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| Terraform Cloud | `--terraform-backend=terraform-cloud` |
| GitLab          | `--terraform-backend=gitlab`          |

##### Terraform Cloud required argument

`--terraform-cloud-hostname=app.terraform.io`<br/>
`--terraform-cloud-token={{terraform-cloud-token}}`<br/>
`--terraform-cloud-organization`

##### Terraform Cloud create organization

`--terraform-cloud-organization-create`<br/>
`--terraform-cloud-admin-email={{terraform-cloud-admin-email}}`

Disabled args
`--terraform-cloud-organization-create-skip`

#### Environment distribution

Choose the environments distribution:

| Value | Description                                                       | Argument                       |
| ----- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 1     | All environments share the same stack (Default)                   | `--environment-distribution=1` |
| 2     | Dev and Stage environments share the same stack, Prod has its own | `--environment-distribution=2` |
| 3     | Each environment has its own stack                                | `--environment-distribution=3` |

#### Project Domain

If you don't want DigitalOcean DNS configuration the following args are required

`--project-url-dev=https://dev.project-domain.com`<br/>
`--project-url-stage=https://stage.project-domain.com`<br/>
`--project-url-prod=https://www.project-domain.com`

#### Media storage

| Value           | Description                                 | Argument                          |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| digitalocean-s3 | DigitalOcean Spaces are used to store media | `--media-storage=digitalocean-s3` |
| aws-s3          | AWS S3 are used to store media              | `--media-storage=aws-s3`          |
| local           | Docker Volume are used to store media       | `--media-storage=local`           |
| none            | Project have no media                       | `--media-storage=none`            |

#### Local S3 storage

For enabling a local S3-like object storage the following argument is needed:

`--local-s3-storage`

Disabled arg:

`--no-local-s3-storage`

#### Redis

For enabling redis integration the following arguments are needed:

`--use-redis`

Disabled args
`--no-redis`

### 🦊 GitLab

> **⚠️ Important: Make sure the GitLab group exists before creating.** > https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/244345

For enabling gitlab integration the following arguments are needed:

`--gitlab-private-token={{gitlab-private-token}}`<br/>
`--gitlab-group-path={{gitlab-group-path}}`

#### 🪖 Sentry

For enabling sentry integration the following arguments are needed:

`--sentry-dsn={{frontend-sentry-dsn}}`

#### 🔇 Quiet

No confirmations shown.

`--quiet`
